**MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN NEW YORK CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT AND THE PHILIPPINE NATIONAL POLICE ON COOPERATION IN PREVENTING AND COMBATING TRANSNATIONAL CRIMES**

**Key Provisions and Obligations:**

1.  **Definitions:** The Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) defines "Transnational Crime" as crimes that take place across national borders, including illicit drug trafficking, terrorism, arms smuggling, human trafficking, maritime fraud, cybercrimes, money laundering, commercial crimes, bank offenses, credit card fraud, and other related offenses.
2.  **Cooperation:** The MOU obliges both parties to cooperate in the prevention, detection, and prosecution of transnational crime.
3.  **Consultation:** The Parties agree to conduct consultations at least once a year to formulate policies and procedures to enhance counter-terrorism measures and combat transnational crime.

**International Obligations:**

1.  **Prejudice to Sovereignty:** In the event that the implementation of this MOU violates the sovereignty of any Party, poses a threat to its security, prejudices its crucial interests or violates its laws and regulations, each Party can derogate some areas of this Memorandum of Understanding or suspend cooperation altogether after providing written notification detailing the conflict to the other Party.

**Funding:**

1.  **Responsibility:** Each Party is responsible for any expenses incurred by that Party in the implementation of this Memorandum of Understanding.

**Termination and Renewal:**

1.  **Entry into Force:** The MOU will enter into force on the date of its signing.
2.  **Duration:** The MOU shall remain in force for a period of five (5) years, may be renewed by mutual consent in writing by the Parties.
3.  **Termination:** Either Party may terminate this Memorandum of Understanding at any time before its expiration by giving written notice to the other party at least three (3) months prior to such termination.

**Dispute Resolution:**

1.  **Consultation:** Any matter arising from the interpretation, application or implementation of this Memorandum of Understanding shall be resolved during consultations between members of the "Joint Committee".
2.  **Chief of PNP and Commissioner of NYPD:** In the event that an issue(s) cannot be resolved by the Joint Committee, that issue(s) shall be elevated to the Chief of the PNP and Commissioner of the NYPD for resolution.

**Amendment and Entry into Force:**

1.  **Revision or Amendment:** This Memorandum of Understanding may be revised or amended in writing by the mutual consent of the Parties.
2.  **Date of Entry into Force:** The provisions of this Memorandum of Understanding will not prejudice any international agreement to which the Republic of the Philippines or the United States is a party to.

**Source:**

This page was dynamically generated by the E-Library Content Management System (E-LibCMS)